Adding tools.md (#344)
zeldaret/mm: docs/tools.md

Runs a make from clean and checks if new warnings have been produced: we use Jenkins to check this as well, but you should run this before opening a PR.

You can specify how many threads you would like this to run with by adding the `-jN` flag. Where N is the number of threads. By default this will run using 1 thread (i.e. `-j1`).

Run `check_new_warnings.sh -h` for more information.

### `tools/warnings_count/update_current_warnings.sh`

If you have to add new warnings, **and have permission from the leads**, run this to update the file used for warnings comparison.

### `fixle.sh`

Fixes line endings in the repo to Linux style (LF), which is required for the build process to work. (You may be better off creating a new clone directly in Linux/WSL, though)

### `format.sh`

Formats all C files in the repo using `clang-format-11` (instructions on how to install this version are pinned in Discord if you can't get it from your package manager in the usual way). This will touch all files in the repo, so the next `make` will take longer.

## External tools

### mips_to_c

mips_to_c (or mips2c) is a tool that takes MIPS assembly and will attempt to convert it to C.

> There are different ways you can run mpips2c:

Author: Sounds good, I can add a section on that

## Retired tools

The following tools are hopefully rendered obsolete by the data extraction that has already been done.

### `tools/overlayhelpers/ichaindis.py`

Used for extracting the InitChain information automatically from the ROM.

### `tools/overlayhelpers/colliderinit.py`

Used for decompliling the Collider struct of an actor. To use colliderinit, you will need to know the address (VRAM or VROM) of the struct, and the type of collider. There are different types of colliderinits: `ColliderJntSph, ColliderTrisInit, ColliderQuadInit, ColliderSphereInit`.

### `tools/overlayhelpers/colchkinfoinit.py`

Similar to `colliderinit.py` but for `CollisionCheckInfoInit`s.

### `tools/overlayhelpers/damage_table.py`

Extracts a damagetable from its address. Can also reconvert existing damagetables should the format change.

### `tools/vtxdis`

Extracts vertex data from a file. Essentially irrelevant since MM requires extracting this data with ZAPD anyway.

### Reservation Tracking

> We use a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X83YCPRa532v-Zo0WgUsJ2kB1X9RxBta5_p9aWA8uro/edit#gid=0>) to keep track of all the files worked on and their merge status. On this board one can reserve a file to work on. To reserve a file, put your github/discord name in the "Reserved" column. It is common courtesy to not work on a file that is being worked on by another contributor, so ensure the "Reserved" column is blank before working on a file. If you really want to work on a specific file and it is reserved you can put your name in the "Interested" column then reach out to the individual who has reserved the file and to see if they are still interested in pursuing the file. Other columns of interest can be the "Size" columns. The smaller the size, generally means it is easier to decompile. We recommend new comers to work on the smaller sized files(Roughly under the Average size of 40). After doing a couple we encourage you to move on to moderate sized files as to maintain smaller files for other new contributors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X83YCPRa532v-Zo0WgUsJ2kB1X9RxBta5_p9aWA8uro/edit#gid=0) to keep track of all the files' decompilation statuses and their function statistics. On this board one can reserve a file to work on. The columns are

- **Actor Id**: The enum that uniquely identifies the actor for spawning etc., useful for looking in KZ/VerboseOcarina/Spectrum. For `boot`/`code`, the VRAM of the file's .text start is given instead.
- **Overlay/File name**: Hopefully obvious, although some remain unknown.
- **Function size statistics**: Intended as a crude estimate of how hard a file will be. Beginners should look for small largest function size and total size; the columns give a rough estimate of the distribution of function sizes without getting unnecessarily statistically descriptive. As you become more experienced, you should work on larger files to 
- **Description**: What the file is. It's helpful if you can fill this in if you know! They should be synchronised with the short top-of-file descriptions.
- **Status**: (Free)/Reserved/PR/Merged. To be kept up-to-date by the reserver.
- **Reserved**: To reserve a file, put your Discord name in the "Reserved" column. It is common courtesy to not work on a file that is being worked on by another contributor, so ensure the "Reserved" column is blank before working on a file. If it is not, you can ask the reserver(s) if they want to release it or collaborate on it, but don't expect them to agree. More information on what is expected when you reserve a file is available in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](../CONTRIBUTING.md).
- **Interested**: If you would like to work on a file, but don't want to reserve it, or would be interested in collaboration, etc. You should talk to any Interested people if you want to work on the file.
- **Notes**: Any other useful information: partial progress by someone unable to finish the file, other files it works with, etc.
```

If you have to add new warnings, **and have permission from the leads**, run this to update the file used for warnings comparison.

### `fixle.sh`

Fixes line endings in the repo to Linux style (LF), which is required for the build process to work. (You may be better off creating a new clone directly in Linux/WSL, though)

### `format.sh`

Formats all C files in the repo using `clang-format-11` (instructions on how to install this version are pinned in Discord if you can't get it from your package manager in the usual way). This will touch all files in the repo, so the next `make` will take longer.

## External tools

### mips_to_c

mips_to_c (or mips2c) is a tool that takes MIPS assembly and will attempt to convert it to C.

There are different ways you can run mips2c:

- Clone the repo and run it loclly on your own machine. Follow set up instructions at <https://github.com/matt-kempster/mips_to_c>
- An online version is available at <https://simonsoftware.se/other/mips_to_c.py>.

mips_to_c's accuracy can be improved when some context to what the existing C source code is like. See more on how to generate this in [m2ctx](#m2ctx.py)

### Permuter

> (Exists in a subrepo.)

Reviewer 2: This is no longer true, should just remove it.

### `tools/vtxdis`

Extracts vertex data from a file. Essentially irrelevant since MM requires extracting this data with ZAPD anyway.

### Reservation Tracking

> We use a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X83YCPRa532v-Zo0WgUsJ2kB1X9RxBta5_p9aWA8uro/edit#gid=0>) to keep track of all the files worked on and their merge status. On this board one can reserve a file to work on. It is common courtesy to not work on a file that is being worked on by another contributor. If there is a specific file you are interested in and it is reserved, reach out to the individual who has it reserved to come to some agreement.

Reviewer: Probably mention what "interested" means too.

### Reservation Tracking

We use a [Google Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1X83YCPRa532v-Zo0WgUsJ2kB1X9RxBta5_p9aWA8uro/edit#gid=0) to keep track of all the files' decompilation statuses and their function statistics. On this board one can reserve a file to work on. The columns are

- **Actor Id**: The enum that uniquely identifies the actor for spawning etc., useful for looking in KZ/VerboseOcarina/Spectrum. For `boot`/`code`, the VRAM of the file's .text start is given instead.
- **Overlay/File name**: Name of the Overlay or File in the codebase.

> - **Function size statistics**: Intended as a crude estimate of how hard a file will be. Beginners should look for small largest function size and total size; the columns give a rough estimate of the distribution of function sizes without getting unnecessarily statistically descriptive. As you become more experienced, you should work on larger files to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Function size statistics**: Intended as a crude estimate of how hard a file will be. Beginners should look for small largest function size and total size; the columns give a rough estimate of the distribution of function sizes without getting unnecessarily statistically descriptive. As you become more experienced, you should work on larger files to leave the smaller ones for other beginners.
```

Ah, apparently this sentence didn't finish itself?
